feat: Common Configuration ADR (#909)
edgexfoundry/edgex-docs: docs_src/design/adr/0026-Common Configuration.md

# Common Configuration
### Submitters
- Lenny Goodell (Intel)
- Elizabeth Lee (Intel)

## Change Log
- [pending](URL of PR TBD) (2022-11-29)

## Referenced Use Case(s)
- [Common Configuration UCR](URL of use case link TBD)

## Context

> This ADR describes the architecture of  the new common configuration capability which impacts all services. Requirements for this new capability are describe in the above referenced UCR. This is deemed architecturally significant due to the cross cutting impacts.

Reviewer: done

### Current Design

> The following flow chart the bootstrapping of each services' configuration in the current Levski release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following flow chart shows the bootstrapping of each services' configuration in the current Levski release.

```

Reviewer: done

## Proposed Design
The configuration settings that are common to all services will be partitioned out into a separate common configuration source. This  common configuration source will be pushed into the Configuration Provider by a new service. When the Configuration Provider is not used this new service will provide the common configuration via a RESTful endpoint.

During bootstrapping, each service will either load the common configuration from the Configuration Provider or via URI to some endpoint that provides the common configuration. This could be the new service's REST endpoint. Each service will have additional private configuration, which may overwrite and/or extend the common configuration.  

An additional common configuration setting must be present to indicate all other common settings have been pushed to the Configuration Provider. This setting is stored last and the services must wait for this setting to be present prior to pulling the common settings.

### Configuration Bootstrapping

The following flow chart demonstrates the bootstrapping of each services' configuration with this new common configuration capability.

> ![](common-config-images/EdgeX 3.x Configuration bootstrapping flowchart.png)

Reviewer 3: I think separating "common from CP" from "common from URI" adds unnecessary architecture complexity in favor of a simple solution which can't be extended for better security (e.g. adding access control, integrity checks to prevent man in the middle attacks). I was under the impression that we already agreed on doing that during the previous architecture call.

### Secret Store Configuration

As part of this design, the Secret Store configuration is being removed from the service configuration (common and private). This is so the Secret Provider can be instantiated prior to processing the service's configuration which may require the Secret Provider. The Secret Store configuration will now be a combination of default values and environment variable overrides.

### Specifying the Common Configuration location

If the `-cp/--configProvider` command line option is used the service will default to pulling the common configuration from a standard path in the Configuration Provider. i.e. `edgex/3.0/common/`

> The new `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option will be added for all services. This option will take the URI that specifies where the common configuration is pulled when not using the Configuration Provider. If no is URI specified with the option (ie. just `-cc`), the URI will default to the new configuration service's REST API. In addition a new environment override variable will be added which allows overriding this new command line option.

Reviewer 3: The config provider value has the `type.URI` format, for example: `consul.http://localhost:8500` (from [docs](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/microservices/configuration/ConfigurationAndRegistry/#seeding-configuration)). How about defining a new class of config providers for when a basic provider is used instead of Consul? The basic provider client needs to implement a subset of CP functionality and may need to support authentication (token based, basic auth, etc) as with Consul.

Reviewer 3: For example, assuming the new config class is called `basic`, a file-based basic CP would be specified as `basic.file:///home/user/config` and expect to include an appropriate file structure beneath it (similar to that of Consul):
```
├── 3.0
    ├── common.json
    └── private
        ├── core-data.json
        ├── core-command.json
        └── ...
```

For an http-based CP, that translated to the following paths for a provider at `basic.http://example.com/edgex`:
- `http://example.com/edgex/common.json`
- `http://example.com/edgex/private/core-data.json`
- `http://example.com/edgex/private/core-command.json`
- `http://example.com/edgex/...`

Author: @farshidtz , Thinking about this, the basic file based CP implementation would use the existing file location option/defaults for the private settings and then the UIR for the common settings would be only info needed in the -cp value.
example: `basic.http://localhost:<port>/<path?`

Is this what you are suggesting?

Reviewer 3: I recognise that the file-based example makes little sense because the private config can already be available at the default local path. My explanation was just to allow secure loading of configuration from an http-based provider which may include just the common stuff, or also private configs.

Thinking about this again, the `-cc/--commonConfig` flag is good if we limit the http-based access control to basic-auth for because the credentials can be passed in the URI (e.g. `-cc=https://user:pass@example.com/common.json`). So, no token based or other fancy authentication and client implementations, just `http.Get`.

> The new `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option will be added for all services. This option will take the URI that specifies where the common configuration is pulled when not using the Configuration Provider. If no is URI specified with the option (ie. just `-cc`), the URI will default to the new configuration service's REST API. In addition a new environment override variable will be added which allows overriding this new command line option.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The new `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option will be added for all services. This option will take the URI that specifies where the common configuration is pulled when not using the Configuration Provider. If no URI is specified with the option (ie. just `-cc`), the URI will default to the new configuration service's REST API. In addition a new environment override variable will be added which allows overriding this new command line option.

```

Reviewer: done

AuthMode = "none"
CredentialsPath = "credentials"

# Comment out/remove when using multi-level topics
IncomingTopic = "DataTopic"
ResponseTopic = "ResponseTopic"
UseTopicLevels = false

# Uncomment to use multi-level topics
# IncomingTopic = "incoming/data/#"
# ResponseTopic = "command/response/#"
# UseTopicLevels = true

    [MQTTBrokerInfo.Writable]
    # ResponseFetchInterval specifies the retry interval(milliseconds) to fetch the command response from the MQTT broker
    ResponseFetchInterval = 500
```

### Modules and Services Impacted

The following modules and services are impacted:

- go-mod-bootstrap
    - All service configuration bootstrapping is handled in this module
- All services which consume go-mod-bootstrap
    - The configuration TOML files will be updated to remove all common  settings
    - This leaves only the private settings and overrides of certain common settings (See examples above)
- New service which provides the common configuration
    - Contains new configuration TOML which contains all the common settings (See example above) 
    - No environment overrides will be applied to the common settings
    - This service is responsible for 

>       - Pushing the common settings into the Configuration Provider during first start-up

Reviewer 2: May be obvious, but this service also has the command line "override" feature so that the common settings can be updated/replaced in the CP?

Author: Hadn't thought about it, but make sense to include. THX!

Reviewer: > Suggest the ADR specifies the new environment variables related to secret store and common config locations

@iain-anderson 

added as discussed in meeting: https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/909/commits/3307591538561cfe40e1f739a2cfefe096121910#diff-bf54438fd0375b5394a29d2beb1dea70d30da1231f568749d7dca48b8f54e4c4R42

Reviewer: done: https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/909/commits/3307591538561cfe40e1f739a2cfefe096121910#diff-bf54438fd0375b5394a29d2beb1dea70d30da1231f568749d7dca48b8f54e4c4R377

      - Providing a REST API to pull the common settings for services not using the Configuration Provider
- TAF test scripts may be impacted based on which settings are modified via the Configuration Provider

## Considerations

- New service which owns the common configuration could be integrated into Core Metadata rather than creating a new micro service. This violates the micro service design principle of single responsibility.

> - Overrides pushed into Configuration Provider rather than applying the overrides once configuration is pulled from the Configuration Provider . Consensus is that the overridden values should not be stored in the Configuration Provider. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Env. Overrides pushed into Configuration Provider rather than applying the overrides once configuration is pulled from the Configuration Provider . Consensus is that the overridden values should not be stored in the Configuration Provider. 
```
So not to be confused with overrides set in configuration files as described in before:
> The change will be ignored if the setting exists in the service's private section. This is so that the service's private overrides are always retained.

Reviewer: done

[MQTTBrokerInfo]
Schema = "tcp"
Host = "localhost"
Port = 1883
Qos = 0
KeepAlive = 3600
ClientId = "device-mqtt"

CredentialsRetryTime = 120 # Seconds
CredentialsRetryWait = 1 # Seconds
ConnEstablishingRetry = 10
ConnRetryWaitTime = 5

# AuthMode is the MQTT broker authentication mechanism. Currently, "none" and "usernamepassword" is the only AuthMode supported by this service, and the secret keys are "username" and "password".
AuthMode = "none"
CredentialsPath = "credentials"

# Comment out/remove when using multi-level topics
IncomingTopic = "DataTopic"
ResponseTopic = "ResponseTopic"
UseTopicLevels = false

# Uncomment to use multi-level topics
# IncomingTopic = "incoming/data/#"
# ResponseTopic = "command/response/#"
# UseTopicLevels = true

    [MQTTBrokerInfo.Writable]
    # ResponseFetchInterval specifies the retry interval(milliseconds) to fetch the command response from the MQTT broker
    ResponseFetchInterval = 500
```

### Modules and Services Impacted

The following modules and services are impacted:

> 

Reviewer 5: Is not security-secrestore-setup needed to seed the Basic Auth secret for the new configuration service?

Reviewer: added!

# Common Configuration
### Submitters
- Lenny Goodell (Intel)
- Elizabeth Lee (Intel)

## Change Log
- [pending](URL of PR TBD) (2022-11-29)

## Referenced Use Case(s)
- [Common Configuration UCR](URL of use case link TBD)

## Context
This ADR describes the architecture of the new common configuration capability which impacts all services. Requirements for this new capability are described in the above referenced UCR. This is deemed architecturally significant due to the cross-cutting impacts.

### Current Design

The following flow chart demonstrates the bootstrapping of each services' configuration in the current Levski release.

![](common-config-images/EdgeX 2.x Configuration bootstrapping flowchart.png)

## Proposed Design

> The configuration settings that are common to all services will be partitioned out into a separate common configuration source. This  common configuration source will be pushed into the Configuration Provider by a new `core-common-config` service. When the Configuration Provider is not used the `core-common-config` service will provide the common configuration via a RESTful endpoint.

Reviewer 3: When CP isn't used, the `-cc/--commonConfig` given in the design should accept a URI to the file. This was to allow loading from a URL (`http`/`https` schemes) or a file (`file` scheme). I don't think the web service or a RESTful API are needed as a generic fallback.

```suggestion
The configuration settings that are common to all services will be partitioned out into a separate common configuration source. When the Configuration Provider is used, this common configuration source will be pushed into the Configuration Provider by a new component called `core-common-config`.
```

Reviewer 3: Or `core-common-config-bootstrapper` to be consistent with other [such services](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-go/tree/main/cmd).

Reviewer: @iain-anderson @cloudxxx8 Are you ok with removing the default common config source when not using a config provider?

> During bootstrapping, each service will either load the common configuration from the Configuration Provider or via URI to some endpoint that provides the common configuration. This could be the new service's REST endpoint. Each service will have additional private configuration, which may overwrite and/or extend the common configuration.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During bootstrapping, each service will either load the common configuration from the Configuration Provider or via URI to some endpoint that provides the common configuration.
```

An additional common configuration setting must be present to indicate all other common settings have been pushed to the Configuration Provider. This setting is stored last and the services must wait for this setting to be present prior to pulling the common settings.

### Configuration Bootstrapping

The following flow chart demonstrates the bootstrapping of each services' configuration with this new common configuration capability.

![](common-config-images/EdgeX 3.x Configuration bootstrapping flowchart.png)

### Secret Store Configuration

As part of this design, the Secret Store configuration is being removed from the service configuration (common and private). This is so the Secret Provider can be instantiated prior to processing the service's configuration which may require the Secret Provider. The Secret Store configuration will now be a combination of default values and environment variable overrides. These environment variables will be the same as the ones that are currently used to override the configuration.

### Specifying the Common Configuration location

> If the `-cp/--configProvider` command line option is used, the service will default to pulling the common configuration from a standard path in the Configuration Provider. i.e. `edgex/3.0/common/` The `-cp/--configProvider` option assumes the usage of the core-common-config service and cannot be used with the `-cc/--commonConfig` option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the `-cp/--configProvider` command line option is used, the service will default to pulling the common configuration from a standard path in the Configuration Provider i.e. `edgex/3.0/common/`. In this case, the value of `-cc/--commonConfig` option is ignored.
```

Reviewer: I think it would be better to **error out** if both `-cp` and `-cc` are specified. Otherwise, the user will not know which option was used.

Reviewer 3: Yes, we could error out.

> The new `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option will be added for all services. This option will take the URI that specifies where the common configuration is pulled when not using the Configuration Provider. If the `-cc/--commonConfig` option is not specified, the URI will default to the new `core-common-config` service's REST API. Authentication will be limited to `basic-auth`. In addition, a new environment override variable `EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG` will be added which allows overriding this new command line option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option will be added for all services. This option will take the URI that specifies where the common configuration is pulled when not using the Configuration Provider. In addition, a new environment override variable `EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG` will be added which allows overriding this new command line option. For `http`/`https` URI schemes, the authentication will be limited to Basic Authentication.

It is mandatory to set a URI for common configuration whenever Configuration Provider is not used.
```

Reviewer 2: I forgot about the environment variable. 
So it seems as though you could use EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG to set the location of the configuration and then not need to provide the `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option on every service? (Since the environment variable overrides anything set by `-cc/--commonConfig` anyway.)
Thus, EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG becomes the "default" fallback that we couldn't figure out how to define.

Reviewer: @TomBrennan-Eaton The environment variable EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG is an **override** for what is provided as the command line flag using `-cc/--commonConfig`. EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG will always take precedence whether `-cc` was used or not. Because EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG is just a variable that can be set, it cannot be the default or fallback; it will always have the final say when it is set.

Reviewer 2: @ejlee3 Agreed on how EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG always overrides `-cc/--commonConfig`
Just pointing out that if `-cc/--commonConfig` isn't provided, EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG can still be used, to good effect.

Reviewer 3: @TomBrennan-Eaton the common environment variables always act this way; see https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/microservices/configuration/CommonEnvironmentVariables/

#### Options for Providing the Common Configuration

> 1. From the configuration provider, using the `-cp/--configProvider` command line option
> 2. From the new `core-common-config` service, either using `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option, or if `-cp/--configProvider` and `-cc/--commonConfig` are not specified, the URI will default to the new `core-common-config` service`s REST API.
> 3. For the simplest setup, without the `-cp/--configProvider` and `core-common-config` service, the `-cc/--configProvider` option may be used to provide the URI for a text file. This simple approach has no authentication and no update mechanism.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. From the Configuration Provider, using the `-cp/--configProvider` command line option
2. When Configuration Provider is not used, given the URI in `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option:
    1. From an HTTP endpoint that returns the common configuration file in response
    2. From a local file that contains the common configuration
```

Reviewer 2: So do we add a #3 and #4 like:
3. When Configuration Provider is not used, a new environment override variable `EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG` can be used to override the `-cp/--configProvider` option and provide the URI as described in 2. This variable can also provide the URI for all services if the `-cp/--configProvider` option isn't provided.
4. If common configuration isn't provided by one of the 3 means above, then the services cannot start.

Reviewer: @farshidtz This will make `-cc` required when `-cp` is not used. 

I think it would be better to have a default for ease of use. There are two paths we could take for the default case (when `-cc` and `-cp` are not provided):

1. Use the new service to provide the default. (what is currently in the ADR)
2. Use the private configuration only. This would allow for legacy support by default. However, all our reference services will be updated to use common configuration and the private configurations will not have all the necessary sections. So when users run our reference services from command line, they will get errors because the configurations are incomplete. This would lead to more questions in Slack and GitHub. 

@TomBrennan-Eaton Yes, we can add 3 and 4 if we decide to go without a default.

@cloudxxx8 @iain-anderson Thoughts?

Author: IMO, having the the new `core-common-config` service be the source for the common config for Consul and for Non-Consul in our reference deployments is elegant. All service's running w/o Consul will default to this new service for the common config. Users the use `-cc` when they have a different source they want to use.

The service is there, it owns the common config, why not have it be the default source when Consul isn't used?

Reviewer 2: @lenny-intel Farshid pointed out that if the REST API is just serving up a file (in effect) that this could be done simply enough by just having something (eg, nginx) host the file (locally or remotely). Then you don't need it to support a REST API for common config.
And taking away the REST API reduces it to just a simple "start up, run once, and exit" task, so that it would not be necessary for it to be an EdgeX Service, with all that that entails.
OK, agree to "elegant", but (I think I can say for Farshid) and I think we should minimize this common config provider to less than a service.
That left us with the "what should the *default* URI be?" problem, and Iain pointed out that there was no good answer to that. 
I suggested that in simple systems where you don't have a config provider (and probably don't want to have a common-config service either, to minimize the footprint) that having a file directly accessible or hosted seems like a suitably good solution.
Finally, this is what I really like about the EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG environment variable - it's a "good-enough-answer" to the "what should the *default* URI be?" question, for simple systems - easy to build into a simple system.

Reviewer 3: @ejlee3 When CP is used, the new service should not run as a service by default so that we don't waste system resources. In this case, if CP is NOT used, the default URI will NOT help with the startup. A user going out of the "default" path would have to remove CP dependency and provide the URI to common config (file or served over the network).

> So when users run our reference services from command line, they will get errors because the configurations are incomplete.

Not if they are using CP, which is the default.

@lenny-intel @ejlee3 As discussed in the call, having it as a service has design flaws:
1. Introducing a new built-in service probably needs additional considerations (footprints) and TSC approval. @JamesKButcher @jpwhitemn what do you think?
2. The given design for a service it isn't secure to the same level as other EdgeX services. First, it is HTTP by default and not routed through the API Gateway. It will be at the risk of [man in the middle attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack)). Moreover, the optional access control won't be consistent with any other services in EdgeX, because it is Basic Auth (which should be used only with TLS!) vs whatever we end up having for other services. @bnevis-i are you okay with this approach and approve it from a security standpoint, considering [this UCR](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/909/files)?
3. The service is a stripped down Configuration Provider. IMO, the alternative to no-CP should not be a stripped-down CP, but instead to have no EdgeX service serving configurations over the network.
 
I don't understand the need to make EdgeX configuration architecture more complicated than it already is. What is needed to satisfy the UCR is to allow supply of common config from CP or from a URI. I don't see any approved requirement to have a common config provider service. See https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.4/design/ucr/Common%20Configuration/

Reviewer 6: @farshidtz according to this ADR, CP still needs the common-config service to push to common part of the configuration, or we need another mechanism to initialize the common configs.

The configuration of microservice architecture is complicated, so we need this mechanism to make it easier to use although it's more complicated for the developers like us.
Users usually want to change the config for the whole system, but they aren't quite sure which service config should be change.  Common config here is helpful from users' point of view.

Reviewer 6: I am fine with not having the -cc default value.

Reviewer 5: Addressing each point individually:

> The given design for a service isn't secure to the same level as other EdgeX services. First, it is HTTP by default and not routed through the API Gateway; it will be at the risk of [man in the middle attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack). 

All EdgeX services today are subject to MITM attacks and the mitigation is still the same if that threat is in scope--TLS at the application level, encrypted tunnels, or service mesh/fabric.  I don't see how a proposed common configuration service is any different.

> Moreover, the optional access control won't be consistent with any other services in EdgeX, because it is Basic Auth (which should be used only with TLS!) vs whatever we end up having for other services. 

Yes, this bugs me.  Per the [TLS ADR](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/adr/security/0015-in-cluster-tls/) we aren't concerned about Basic Auth (or token auth for that matter) occurring over non-TLS channels if communication is on the same host.  If you are root, you can capture packets and retrieve credentials, or steal TLS keys and spoof the receiving service.

Moreover, despite the common configuration, in order to perform authentication, the credential is coming from the EdgeX secret store.  **Thus, the secret store configuration must still come from disk and not a common configuration provider service.**  There must still be some local configuration available to each EdgeX service that tells it parameters by which it trusts and authenticates to the EdgeX secret store.

@bnevis-i are you okay with this approach and approve it from a security standpoint, considering [this UCR](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/909/files)?

I would rather the ADR state at the authentication mechanism be identical to the one chosen for other EdgeX peer microservices, instead of going off on its own.  I presume Basic Auth was chosen because it could be implemented easily, and because common configuration would be needed to successfully initialize go-mod-bootstrap, and Basic Auth was an easy way to avoid a chicken-and-egg problem.

Author: > Moreover, the optional access control won't be consistent with any other services in EdgeX, because it is Basic Auth (which should be used only with TLS!) vs whatever we end up having for other services.

No where did we state the this reference endpoint would require basic auth. What we did state is that loading of the file from URI would support use of basic auth. This doesn't mean it would require it.

> A good point mentioned earlier is that if we are simply serving a file with minimal authentication, Nginx, mini_httpd, or the like will probably work. python's http.server doesn't support auth. The more complex the auth mechanism, the fewer the choices.

This new service already owns the file for the purposes of pushing it into Consul. I don't see how adding Nginx or something else to serve the file it is simpler.

Note that in secure mode this new service will need a Vault token and a Consul Access token in order to push the configuration into Consul. Also all services will need ACL access to the common area in Consul. @ejlee3, this should be added to the ADR.

Reviewer 5: > This new service already owns the file for the purposes of pushing it into Consul. I don't see how adding Nginx or something else to serve the file it is simpler.
> 
> Note that in secure mode this new service will need a Vault token and a Consul Access token in order to push the configuration into Consul. Also all services will need ACL access to the common area in Consul. @ejlee3, this should be added to the ADR.

@lenny-intel You are making this argument because this new service is either serving the config directly, or pushing it into Consul, or both, and that since you still need to push to Consul, it has to be a full service.  Correct?

Author: > 2\. The given design for a service isn't secure to the same level as other EdgeX services. First, it is HTTP by default and not routed through the API Gateway;

Since this new service is present only for the local EdgeX services (reference deployment), there is no need for it to be accessible via the API gateway.

Reviewer 3: > Since this new service is present only for the local EdgeX services (reference deployment), there is no need for it to be accessible via the API gateway.

@lenny-intel This is not true. The services can run on different machines. Running a device service **securely** on a different machine has been a long requested feature and this is just a step backward in making that possible.

Reviewer 3: > This new service already owns the file for the purposes of pushing it into Consul. I don't see how adding Nginx or something else to serve the file it is simpler.

@lenny-intel the new component doesn't need to be a long running service. All is needed per requirements is to simply seed the CP and exit. When CP isn't used, the commons can be loaded from a file as for having the simplest approach. If you make it run forever, you would be wasting memory and CPU cycles for no reason.

Reviewer 3: > Note that in secure mode this new service will need a Vault token and a Consul Access token in order to push the configuration into Consul. @ejlee3, this should be added to the ADR.

> You are making this argument because this new service is either serving the config directly, or pushing it into Consul, or both, and that since you still need to push to Consul, it has to be a full service. Correct?

> correct it will need most of the "full service" capability to handle pushing to Consul. So why not also have it be a default source for the file for when Consul isn't used. 

@lenny-intel @bnevis-i Sorry, but again, why does it need to maintain a valid Vault token when its role is to bootstrap the file once. Is it needed to watch and re-submit the file automatically once changed? (where is the requirement?) If it is to submit once on runtime, I don't see the need for it to be a service to keep renewing the Vault token. If the config file has been modified by the user, that same user can run the security setup once to get a new and valid token and then run the application to seed and exit.

Reviewer 5: > If you make it run forever, you would be wasting memory and CPU cycles for no reason.

It causes a problem for people running EdgeX in a monolith Kubernetes pod.  If one container terminates, the whole POD fails.

Author: > Sorry, but again, why does it need to maintain a valid Vault token when its role is to bootstrap the file once.

@farshidtz , In secure mode Consul is locked down so the service will need a Vault token in order to request a Consul Access token. After it pushes the common config it no longer needs the tokens.

Author: > Not if they are using CP, which is the default.

@farshidtz , this is not the default when running from command-line in a terminal. One has to explicitly use `-cp` option.

Reviewer 5: > @lenny-intel So that sounds like a one-shot service which waits until the common config has been submitted does the job. It will have to maintain the Vault token in the meantime as per @bnevis-i's concern.

It will need to maintain the token if:
- It continues to run a server that serves configuration for those components that don't fetch it from consul.
- It wishes to participate in standard EdgeX service authentication 

So if it continues running with a cached HTTP Basic auth credential, or terminates and just dead hangs the container (this is the one-shot scenario), no token maintenance is required.

Reviewer 5: > The `-cc` introduced in this ADR takes the above mentioned URI. The authentication is limited to basic auth because the credentials can be passed in a URI in form of `http://user:pass@myserver.com/common.json`. There is no requirement to have the server of that file participate in EdgeX service auth. I don't know would on implement that, since we only have a URI without any other information about the target endpoint (Are we gonna send the secret to whatever server that serves the file, even if it is github.io?)

It might be beneficial to the spec, that if HTTPS is used, to specify how that trust is established.  (My assumption would be to keep it simple, that it must be trusted by the system, otherwise another command line argument to specify the certfile or certpath.).   Also, I want to note that the  `http://user:pass@myserver.com/common.json` form, if specified on the command line, is insecure (it will show up in `ps` output).  `curl` for example, has a `--netrc` option to avoid that.

![](common-config-images/EdgeX 2.x Configuration bootstrapping flowchart.png)

## Proposed Design
The configuration settings that are common to all services will be partitioned out into a separate common configuration source. This common configuration source will be pushed into the Configuration Provider by the new `core-common-config-bootstrapper` service.

> During bootstrapping, each service will either load the common configuration from the Configuration Provider or via URI to some endpoint that provides the common configuration. Each service will have additional private configuration, which may overwrite and/or extend the common configuration.  

Reviewer 3: > Each service will have additional private configuration, which may overwrite and/or extend the common configuration. 

I've [suggested the removal](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-docs/pull/909#discussion_r1042433163) of this statement in my previous review, unfortunately without explanation. If you insist on keeping it:

1. The service will not overwrite/replace the common config. It overrides them ([as explained in UCR](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.4/design/ucr/Common%20Configuration/#with-file-based-configuration-provider)):
```suggestion
During bootstrapping, each service will either load the common configuration from the Configuration Provider or via URI to some endpoint that provides the common configuration. Each service will have additional private configuration, which may override and/or extend the common configuration.  
```

2. Can a service's private configuration "override" the entire common configuration? If yes, this means that we can run a service with neither a CP nor a common config source (as possible with EdgeX 2), making the following mandates obsolete:

> L44: If the `-cp/--configProvider` option is not specified and the `-cc/--commonConfig` option is not specified, then the service will error out.

> L52: 3. If a common configuration is not provided by one of the means listed, then the services cannot start.

Reviewer 2: @farshidtz makes a really good point - a complete override is equivalent to what we have today (score one for backwards compatibility!), and does mean that we don't have to state L44 about erroring out.

Reviewer: @farshidtz @TomBrennan-Eaton 
If the private configuration isn't a complete one (as we have it today), then the service will get random errors on start up due to incomplete config. The cleaner thing may be be to require the user to specify -cc/--commonConfigis set to None in order to use a private configuration (as the backwards compatibility option).

Reviewer 3: @ejlee3 I believe this an implementation issue which can be solved by improving the error handing of config loader. The same would happen if a user comments out or removes some of the other private configurations.

It can be as simple as:

> #### Options for Providing the Common Configuration
>
> 1. From the configuration provider, using the `-cp/--configProvider` command line option
> 2. When the Configuration Provider is not used, the `-cc/--commonConfig` command line option ~~or the `EDGEX_COMMON_CONFIG` environment variable~~ may be specified using 
>    1. An HTTP endpoint that returns the common configuration file in response
>    2. A local file that contains the common configuration
> 3. **From the main configuration file, alongside other private configurations**

I've removed the env var part because it is redundant and misleading (`-cp` doesn't have env override and only `-cc` has it?). The common config variable override is already explained above the text.

Reviewer: @farshidtz The implementation issue cannot be solved by improving the error handling of the config loader. The config loader has no knowledge of what configuration is required and shouldn't at that level. 

I added the env variable for the `-cp` option since it is a better option. I also re-worded the sections to use the private configuration.
